---
layout: post
title: Perth, WA
---


G'day! Well, I suppose it's about time I wrote something. It's Day 5 here in <a
href="http://www.perthwa.com.au/">Perth</a> and I'm having a wonderful time.
Perth is a fantastic city, not very big, but certainly very tall. It's clean
too. Imagine my delight when the first barman to collect our glasses said to me
"Nah worries, mate!" I've also seen Meat Pie Floaters on a menu. This really is
The Last Continent!

On Monday we hired a car and drove to <a
href="http://www.cavershamwildlife.com.au/">Caversham Wildlife Park</a> (which,
incidentally is run by a couple who originally lived in my old hometown of
Aylesbury). Here we saw all manner of Australian animals. I watched the koalas
sleep, fed the kangaroos, cuddled a wombat and took photos of everything else!

Tuesday was spent pottering around the City after having had a good night on the
beers. Then we went to join <a href="http://www.thmoore.org/"><i>thm</i></a> and
his family for an authentic Aussie Barbie, with prawns, 'roo and everything!
Yesterday, after a trip to the Museum of Western Australia, we took a cab ride
to the casino to watch <i>A</i> win, whilst pouring $1 coins into the slot,
never to be seen again!

Last night we paid a visit to The Brass Monkey bar, where they have a comedy
night every Wednesday. To quote Her Deceased Majesty, "We are not amused!"
Sorry. Well, the last act, "Norvac 'n' Funny" made us laugh, to be fair, but did
we really have to sit through the rest?

Anyway, I love it here! The Aussies have a thing or two to learn about beer,
though. It's too cold for a start! There really is no need to keep the glasses
in the fridge. And bitter has <i>never</i> been <i>yellow</i>! Don't get me
started about what Guinness should taste like, either!

More later... I'm off to <i>Freo</i> now.

