---
layout: post
title: Memories of Tokyo, Japan
---

After the delayed blog entry about [my time in
Sydney](/2001/06/21/blog-entry-for-thu-21-jun-2001-09-21-11-utc/), I have
finally gotten around to writing a bit about <a
href="http://www.jnto.go.jp/english/regions/kanto/tokyo/index.html">Tokyo</a>
for you. The week was amazing from start to finish. We arrived at <a
href="http://www.narita-airport.or.jp/">Narita Airport</a> at some ungodly hour
of the morning, but were still met by three smiling faces, our old friends
<i>tk</i> and <i>sa</i> &amp; his charming girlfriend. After lots of mutual back
slapping and exchanging of Japanese expletives on our arrival we adjourned for a
quick beverage before setting off for the countryside for the day. <i>tk</i> and
<i>sa</i> had the whole week planned out for us and we are very grateful to them
for that. So off we went in convoy along the toll-infested highways and byways
of Tokyo out to <a
href="http://www.kankou.hakone.kanagawa.jp/index_e.html">Hakone National
Park</a> where we would spend the rest of the day relaxing in one of the
region's many <a href="http://www.outdoorjapan.com/section-onsen.html">hot
springs</a>. This was the way to relax after a long flight, chatting with
friends whilst soaking in Jacuzzis, rose baths, green tea baths and even <a
href="http://www.sake.nu/">sake</a> baths! That evening we ate out at a lovely
Japanese restaurant before going back to our hotel for some <a
href="http://www.asahibeer.co.uk/">Japanese beer</a> and a civilised game of
cards. Well, semi-civilised... ...there was a lot of burping!

The next day we left the hotel and headed off for <a
href="http://www.city.kamakura.kanagawa.jp/english/">Kamakura</a> to see the
town and then on to see the <a
href="http://www.city.kamakura.kanagawa.jp/english/stroll/scene/kotokuin.htm">Daibutsu</a>.
That afternoon we headed back to the City where we would spend the rest of our
week. After checking into our <a
href="http://www.hotelurashima.co.jp/">hotel</a> we spent some time in <a
href="http://www.jnto.go.jp/english/regions/kanto/tokyo/1309.html">Ginza</a>
searching for a bank that would accept my <a
href="http://www.direct.hsbc.co.uk/access-your-money-abroad/">Cirrus card</a>.
Japanese Pancakes were the order of the day to line our stomachs for a few more
tins of Asahi!

On the Tuesday, our Japanese friends had to attend the office (I couldn't bring
myself to type the W-word) leaving <i>rtm</i>, <i>mec</i> and I free to go to go
to <a href="http://www.tokyodisneyland.co.jp/index_e.html">Tokyo Disneyland</a>
for the day. Hey... I'd never been to Disneyland before and I had a thoroughly
fantastic time. I hope one day to bring my little sister to Disneyland, but
perhaps I'll go to one a bit closer to home<a
href="http://2000.disneylandparis.com/uk/introduction.htm">*</a>.

The rest of the week was fairly relaxing. Apart from catching up with friends
and sampling the local cuisine, the only other touristy thing we engaged in was
an afternoon <a href="http://www.hatobus.co.jp/english/tour/302.html">bus
tour</a> with <i>ta</i>.

Our last night in Tokyo was one of the most memorable of the whole trip: a
lovely meal with the guys and their colleagues. Much alcohol was consumed that
night and when the guys suggested sampling some Japanese-style karaoke... it
seemed like a fantastic idea. Photos of me singing many rock classics are
<em>not</em> available anywhere on the Internet. Thank goodness!

Once again I would like to thank <i>tk</i> &amp; his father, <i>sa</i> &amp;
<i>N</i> and <i>ta</i> for giving us a wonderful week in Tokyo.
          
