---
layout: post
title: In which I talk about Dublin
---


It doesn't matter, where I roam, it's always good to be back home. Perhaps these
are the lyrics to a song? If not, then they damned well <b>should be</b>! That's
not to say that I didn't enjoy being away, <i><b>I did</b></i>, immensely. As
some of you may know, I enjoy driving, which is good, because I've covered a far
few miles of variably-well-surfaced road in the week since my last Blog entry.
Those of you who have been paying attention (not to mention looking at the right
URL) will be aware that I've been to Dublin. The moment that The Emerald Isle
came into sight from the top deck of the ferry was an emotional one for me. As a
child, I spent <u>many</u> happy holidays in Ireland, yet this visit with old
chums <i>ajd</i> and <i>cam</i> was my first for over five years. I was glad to
be back in the land where my parents were born, the land where I have many
relations and indeed, the land where Guinness comes from!

Once we'd docked at Dublin Port and been sprayed (just in case my poor little
car was carrying this foot and mouth disease that you may have heard mentioned
on the news), our first port of call was the bed and breakfast into which we
were booked for our stay. <a href="http://www.aishlinghouse.com/">Aishling
House</a>, in Clontarf was a wonderful B&amp;B, we couldn't have hoped for
anything better. I would recommend it to anyone. Once settled in, it was time to
make our way out to <a
href="http://www.dublintourist.com/regional/howth/">Howth</a> on the <a
href="http://www.irishrail.ie/html/travinfo/index.asp">Dart</a>. Here we met up
with my parents (who were also visiting) and my godmother's family. It was
fantastic to meet up with some of my cousins whom I hadn't seen in years, and
I'd like to thank both <em>gf</em> and <em>kf</em> (<a
href="http://www.fotango.com/p/ebr00030681f00000038.jpg">pictured here</a>) for
showing myself and the lads such a great time in Dublin. It was in Howth last a
week ago tonight, that we experienced our first pint of Guinness in Dublin
(followed by a few more ;-) ).

On Sunday we went sight-seeing, down into Co. Wicklow to <a
href="http://www.worldphotographer.com/ireland/glendalough.html">Glendalough</a>
and <a href="http://www.powerscourt.ie/">Powerscourt</a>, both of which are
beautiful places, but quite closed at the moment, due to the aforementioned
disease. Still, we managed to take some lovely pictures of the Wicklow mountains
before following the roadsign that was marked, quite simply, &quot;Scenic
Route&quot;. And indeed it would have been, if it wasn't so misty up there. At
one point, when we were at the roadside, taking a few snaps, an English couple
in a car coming the other way stopped and asked us, &quot;Do you know where the
nearest main road is? There isn't one up there for hours!&quot;. Poor people!
Anyway, we took our chances and carried on, finally making our way to the
highest pub in Eire, <a href="http://www.johnniefoxs.com/">Johnnie Fox's</a>.
Well, it's a landmark, isn't it?

Monday was possibly the high-point of last week with a visit to the <a
href="http://www.guinness-hopstore.com/">Guinness Brewery</a>. Now, I've been to
a brewery or two in my time, but this was the ultimate. A fantastic visitor
experience, followed by a pint of the black stuff in the Gravity Bar on the
seventh floor, which offers possibly the best views in Dublin. In one of the
bars in the brewery, I performed one of my little bar tricks, which seemed to
catch the attention of a few of the other visitors who wanted to take some
photos. Here are <a href="http://www.fotango.com/p/ebr00030681f00000009.jpg">a
couple</a> of <a
href="http://www.fotango.com/p/ebr00030681f00000010.jpg">shots</a>! After a good
day's drinking, it was time for a great night's drinking in Templebar. Cousin
<em>gf</em> and second-cousin <em>&quot;l&quot;</em> joined the terrible trio
for the onslaught.

By the time the sun had reached it's highest point on the next day, our little
trip to Ireland was over. So soon, but the lads' week away was not. Oh no. Next
stop, <i>cam</i>'s parental abode in deepest darkest, Herefordshire for a
top-class meal in the local. Oh, and a pint of the black stuff! Time being
short, first thing Wednesday, we began the voyage down to <a
href="http://www.virtual-swanage.co.uk/">Swanage</a> on the south-coast of
England, where we would spend the rest of the week engaging in, well, more of
the same, really, taking it easy, enjoying a cold beverage or two, cracking the
same jokes that we've been cracking since we first met over ten years ago and
listening to the rain hitting the roof of our static caravan.

And now I'm back home and have much catching up to do but first I have to wish
my Irish readers a very <font color="#00FF00">Happy St. Patrick's Day</font>,
and thanks once more to those of you who gave me such a great week!

