---
layout: post
title: Sunday, Sunday.
---

Ah, Sunday afternoon. Arguably the best time of the week. We find ourselves
relaxing with his 'n' hers bottles of <a
href="http://www.oldspeckledhen.co.uk">&quot;Old Speckled Hen&quot;</a>, having
consumed a fine Sunday roast, here at Johnsy Towers. Even better than that, <a
href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000002MG1/johnsydotorg-21/">
Automatic for the People</a> (official winner of the <em>paj</em> Best Album in
the World... ...Ever Award) is playing away gently in the background. The sun is
shining on the garden. Mrs Johns is curled up on the sofa with a good book. All
is well.

Time now to reflect on the past few days, which saw Mrs Johns and I, alongside
my brother and Messrs. Dean &amp; Mayes, in Dublin.

The purpose for this trip was to see the awesome live act that is <a
href="http://www.remhq.com/">R.E.M.</a> perform on their second night at <a
href="http://mcd.ie/venues/marlay.php3">Marlay Park</a>. 

Our time in Dublin began (predictably) in Messrs. Maguire's pub (<a
href="http://www.messrsmaguire.ie/">website</a> now dysfunctional) on the bank
of the Liffey, indulging in a pint (or three) of Dublin's famous brew, where we
waited for two of our cousins to join us. Conveniently, <a
href="http://www.dublinbus.ie/">Dublin Bus</a> were providing
very-reasonably-priced return transportation from outside our chosen
watering-hole to the concert venue. Perfect.

The ground was much smaller than I imagined (I now learn that there were only
15,000 people there), but this was no bad thing. Having missed the opening act,
<a href="http://www.rubyhorse.com/">Ruby Horse</a> and having bought t-shirts
and hot dogs during <a href="http://www.starsailor.net/">Starsailor</a>'s set,
we didn't have to wait long for the main act to come on-stage. Their set was
over far too quickly (about an hour-and-three-quarters), but it was truly
amazing. Really, really rather splendid.

Eager to party some more, some of us went on to a club on Harcourt Street for
some drinking and dancing. I also met up with a friend who I met on <a
href="http://web.icq.com/">ICQ</a> some three years ago. An excellent night was
had by all.

On Friday, we made use of the free public transport (as a result of <a
href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/3076317.stm">industrial
action</a>, very different to the inaction that we're used to in Britain) to
head down to <a href="http://www.dun-laoghaire.com/">D&uacute;n Laoghaire</a>
for a relaxing morning. I was very chuffed to spot three dolphins playing happy
in the water. I was even more pleased the the others spotted them too, proving
that I was not hallucinating. 

From D&uacute;n Laoghaire, we moved on to Howth, to play some pool and enjoy a
few pints before moving on to <a href="http://www.wheelhouse.ie/">a
restaurant</a> for quite possibly the nicest seafood dish I have ever tasted. 

The trip was short, but has whet my appetite for the fortnight-long driving
holiday that we shall be embarking on at the end of the Summer. This trip will
coincide with the annual incrementation of my age, so if any of you are free on
the first weekend of September, why not join us in Dublin for a pint-or-two of
the black stuff?

Photos from the past three days can be found in <a
href="http://www.johnsy.com/albums/20030719-dublin/">this album</a>.
