---
layout: post
title: To Sydney we must go
---




In the skies again! Days seem to be passing at more than the recommended 60 mph
(minutes per hour) rate, I tell you!


Travelling isn't so bad, y'know? I know a lot of people who don't like flying,
but long-haul flights are pretty fun. Unless, of course, you get the same film
(say, _Stuck on You_) on every leg of your journey! Other than that, though,
it's pretty good; you get to press a little button and a nice lady or a camp
gentleman will deliver you beer. The sun is likely to be over the yard-arm in
either your departure point or at your destination! Aeroplane food isn't so bad,
either; the portions may not be the largest, but you get three courses in a tiny
little tray. Plus about three drinks. These, I guess are to encourage you to
walk to the back of the 'plane and back, from to-to-time.


And so Perth is a tiny spot on the horizon to our rear. We've said our farewells
to _T_ and _A_, who have been wonderful. I'm sure it won't be long before we see
them again, whichever hemisphere we happen to be in at the time.


In a couple of hours' time, we'll be meeting up with more friends on the
opposite coast of this vast country. We're staying with _M_'n'_N_ at _N_'s
parents' house, to the North of Sydney, NSW. It'll be great to see them. _N_ and
I worked together at `$PETES_EMPLOYER-1`, until the time came for her and _M_ to
move home to get married. I've only met _M_ a couple of times, but we got on
like the proverbial burning residence.


I'm also looking forward to being back in Sydney. Last time I was there with _R_
and _M_ we saw lots, but I still feel like I have so much more to see. Mrs J and
I intend to do the whole bridge-climb thang. Apparently at the top of Sydney
Harbour Bridge there is a stamp that reads, &quot;Made In Middlesbrough&quot;,
so we have to witness that. _N_'s Dad has kindly offered to take us walking in
the Blue Mountains. The Blue Mountains are among the most scenic places I have
ever been, so we're both very much looking forward to doing some walking in
between all of those lovely-smelling eucalyptus trees.


I've come up with a solution to the poor quality audio problem that I seemed to
be suffering from during the first leg of this trip: I _need_ to buy an iPod.
They're nearly &pound;100 cheaper in WA than they are in the UK. If I find a
similarly-priced one in NSW (or perhaps Tokyo, if I can wait that long), then I
shall go for it. The batteries should last for longer on a flight than this 'ere
laptop, which I have to say is serving me very well. I promise I'll let _K_ have
it back when we arrive back in England, though ;-)


Technology is great, isn't it? Last night, I took some pictures of the City by
night. Within minutes, they were on the laptop and a few minutes later, they
were online for my friends on the other side of the planet to marvel at. I
*heart* the Internet!


Are we there yet!?

