---
layout: post
title: My woman in Tokyo
---

It's so good to be back in Tokyo. I'm sitting in friend _TK_'s living room. He
and his Dad have kindly put us up for our stay here. _S_ met us at the airport
yesterday morning and, after a brief stop-off at his flat, where we met his wife
and seven-month-old son, provided us with a tour of the shopping suburbs of
Japan's capital city.


One of the shopping areas that we covered was _Electric City_, where I picked up
a number of accessories for my new toy. When I get back to the UK, I shall have
plenty to play with! We also had a wonder around the Sony Tower. Now here's a
place for gadget-lovers everywhere. We saw some very cool digital cameras
(minute) and Mini Disc players (platinum-plated). _K_ enjoyed herself playing
with the Eye-Toys and I developed a desire for their PSX machine.


Last night we joined _S_ and _N_ (and _Baby R_), at the restaurant where two
years (to the day) previously, they celebrated their wedding. _TK_ was also
there. We had a lovely meal with some fine wines and a wonderful desert, to
celebrate the second wedding anniversary.


_K_ (whose grasp of Nihon-go is increasing rapidly and will soon be putting mine
to shame) and I were left to our own devices today. We took the opportunity to
navigate the Tokyo subway and rail systems. Our first port-of-call was the World
Trade Center. We took the lift to the fortieth floor to experience th sights.
Alas, while were were up there the elements decided to assure us that we had
been really very lucky while we were in the Southern Hemisphere and a heavy
downpour ensued, reducing the visibility. While we couldn't see Mt. Fuji in the
distance or get a decent photo of the Tokyo Tower (a television transmitter), we
did get to see some good views of this busy city. We sat at the top and took out
the guide book (we like the Lonely Planet series) to decide where to go next.


Ueno presented itself as a good place to visit, with lovely parks, museums and a
five-storey pagoda. We found our way there without any problem and wandered
around the market-filled streets. After a bite to eat, we meandered through the
park and to the museum.

