---
layout: post
title: More on Perth
---

Time for another update, methinks, while it's all fresh in my head.


Yesterday, was Easter Monday, the anniversary of the day in 1876 that six Irish
Fenians escaped from Fremantle Prison, here in WA, to America, aboard the ship
Catalpa. We know this because yesterday we were down in Freo and took the time
to take a look around the prison. Some readers may remember me writing about
Fremantle Prison last time I was down here in Australia, so I won't duplicate
information here. I can't recall (and I'm not hooked up to the Internet at the
moment, so I cannot check) if I wrote about how good the fish and chips at
Cicerello's are; I personally think that they are among the World's finest. And
I've had fish 'n' chips in Whitby!


This time around in Freo, we had the opportunity to explore a bit further,
taking in the Round House and the flea markets. _A_ also insisted that we paid a
visit to a bar called the Sail and Anchor, where they brew their own beer. A
fine recommendation, I say! Should you be in town, I recommend the white beer
named after the local Aussie Rules Football team, _Dockers_. Most tasty.


On the subject of taste, we indulged in another fine meal that evening (you'll
note a recurring theme, here) as we went to the Chinese restaurant at the
Burswood casino, before cleaning up on the game Two Up (heads and tails, for the
uninitiated).


Today was another gorgeous day weatherwise. We went shopping in Morley at the
Galleria shopping centre. Groceries and postcards and the like. We stocked up on
a picnic for tomorrow's activities. Having done all of our shopping and having
called my credit card company after a small breakdown in communication, we
headed off to Caversham Wildlife Park, which has moved to a much larger site
since I was last in Perth. It was good to see that kangaroos, koalas and wombats
are still every bit as cute as they were some three years back.


An early night is in order tonight. Not only have a few late nights catching up
with old friends taken their toll, but the alarms are set for ludicrous o'clock
tomorrow morning (probably as our friends back in the UK are retiring tonight).
We have to be up in the City before eight o'clock in the morning to board a bus
to Cervantes and The Pinnacles. This is something to which I am looking forward
enormously.


Looking ahead to the weeks ahead, I have been in touch with friend Sean of
SophOz fame in Sydney, with whom we'll be indulging in a liquid libation or two
during our stay in NSW. We're also in touch with my former Sophos colleagues in
Tokyo, who are organising lots for us to see and do in our short time with them
the following week. We really are having a fantabulous time and the holiday is
really only just starting.


Life is good!


        
