---
layout: post
title: Possibly the last of my ramblings from Perth
---

Rottnest Island or Rotto, as it's known locally by the folks who like to
abbreviate as much as possible, is a small Island to the West of Perth. Mrs
Johns and I thought that this place would provide a nice setting for our first
Friday in the Antipodes. This decided, we caught a train into the City, followed
by a bus to Hillarys Marina where in turn we boarded the fast ferry to the
Island.


Once on the Island, we immediately headed for another ocean vessel. This time, a
semi-submersible boat, with thick glass windows in the hull. A 45-minute voyage
sat inside the belly of this beast gave us some amazing sights: Many colourful
fish, brightly-coloured coral, sponges, starfish and two shipwrecks.


Back on Rottnest Island once more, we headed for some food at the tea-rooms, to
provide some energy for the afternoon ahead. 


Rottnest Island has many cyclists. Bicycles are available from a number of hire
shops both on the Island and the mainland. We opted to ride on our own Shanks'
Pony and head for the hills. It was a gorgeous day and the sun was beating down
on us from the Heavens. We walked past a big lake of salt crystals and up a big
hill with a gorgeous view of a lighthouse, before turning left and up a much
steeper hill to where there was a huge gun. Having taken in the views atop the
hill, we made our way back to the harbour area to take on some liquid before
heading back to Perth.


Back in the company of Mr &amp; Mrs Moore (who know a fine variety of
restaurants in WA, incidentally), we headed for a Chinese restaurant for our
evening meal. Five miles walking in the sun had given me quite an appetite and I
ate my fill, leaving no room to sample the fried ice cream that was on offer for
dessert!


Yesterday, gold was on the agenda. We paid a visit to the Perth Mint. An
excellent tourist attraction, where we watched gold being poured, set and then
melted back down. I learned that if I really was worth my weight in gold, I
would be worth 1.38 million dollars! I also learned that I could lift 12.5kg of
gold through a hole large enough to put my hand in, but not large enough to get
the bar back out.


We spent the afternoon shopping and I sampled a pint of Chilli Beer at The Brass
Monkey Bar before heading to a fine Italian Restaurant for a repast of pasta to
set us up for the evening. 


The evening was to consist of two pubs. First up: The Elephant and Wheelbarrow,
a traditional British pub, apparently. Then we moved on to Rosie O'Grady's,
where they sold a range of Irish drinks and even Irish Crisps (Tayto... Mmmm!).
A fine evening's drinking in good company: just the way I like to spend my
Saturday nights.


Today is Sunday, the day of rest, and so it shall be so. Alas, this is also our
penultimate day in Western Australia. For this visit, at least. Plans are
already afoot for our next visit down here and for our hosts' reciprocal visit
to the UK. It is always good to have something to look forward to.

