---
layout: post
title: York
---



<div class="pajBlogImgRight"> <a
        href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/johnsyweb/77960833/" title="Photo
Sharing"> <img src="http://static.flickr.com/37/77960833_de332b92d8_m.jpg"
width="240" height="180" alt="20051222-perth 044" /></a> </div> As the holiday
weekend draws to a close here in Western Australia, I figured it would be time
for a catch-up.


We have spent the past few days staying in the company of <a
    href="http://zacplaymat.blogspot.com">Zac</a> and his <a
href="http://members.iinet.net.au/~cherub/cherablog.html">Mum</a> and <a
href="http://members.iinet.net.au/~cherub/blogger.html">Dad</a>, which is really
nice. We all had a good Christmas together and Santa Claus managed to find us
all.


Having Christmas in the Summertime is very bizarre indeed, dear reader. The
sights of advent wreathes, decorated fir trees and shiny tinsel in the blazing
sun, combined with the sounds of Christmas carols are all very incongruous. I
even spotted someone wearing shorts at Midnight Mass, something hitherto unseen
by these eyes!


The traditional barbecue on Christmas Day made an interesting change from
turkey, ham and sprouts. I figured that this may prove a major selling point in
convince my Dad that he should spend Christmas 2007 Down Under.


Having a picnic on the beach on Boxing Day was also rather nice. There are miles
and miles of sandy beaches here in Perth, which means that even on a public
holiday when the weather is glorious, it's easy to get a parking space and to
get a good spot on the beach. Sadly, it also proved far too easy to get my
ankles sunburnt, but that'll clear up shortly, I'm sure.


Today we took <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/johnsyweb/77960941/">The
    Beast</a> for a run up to <a href="http://www.yorkwa.com.au/">York</a> (the
town so good, they named it once) for a mooch around. The <a
href="http://www.yorkwa.com.au/Motor.Museum/">Motor Museum</a> was (for me) by
far the highlight of this town. We decided to leave after a nice lunch for <a
href="http://www.beverley.wa.gov.au/">Beverley</a>, stopping off to take in the
views of <a href="http://www.yorkwa.com.au/AvonAscent/default.htm">The Avon
    Ascent</a>. The views were beautiful, but the flies were keen to remind us
that they were there first. Beverley was closed, so we just kept driving.
<del>Miles</del><ins>Kilometres</ins> after kilometres of long, straight road...
a taste of things to come!


