---
layout: post
title: Stuart^WAlice
---




Of all the places in the World for my camera to finally give up the ghost, The
Red Centre of Australia would have to be about the worst: home to some of the
most amazing landscapes that I shall ever see and absolutely no way of getting a
replacement. I was not a happy camper on Thursday evening!


Thankfully I am not the only one with a camera, so when we went to visit Kata
Tjuta/The Olgas on Friday morning we were able to get some great shots of the
tremendous natural domes. We completed our walk through The Valley of the Winds
by lunchtime, just after the clouds had cleared and the Sun had begun to bake
the Red Earth below.


We spent the afternoon exploring the Uluru-Kata Tjuta Cultural Centre and
learning about the Aboriginal people who live in the area. We also took a drive
around the base of Uluru/Ayers Rock. It became clear to me that the reason all
photographs of Uluru/Ayers Rock seem to be from the same side is that some parts
of the rock are considered so sacred to the Aboriginal people that they ask for
them not to be photographed. We had agreed before our trip that we were not
going to climb the rock out of respect for the traditional owners. It turned out
that the climb was closed for the entire time that we were there anyway, due to
the weather conditions, so it was good to see nobody on the rock. I learned that
Kata Tjuta/The Olgas is considered more sacred to the Aboriginals than
Uluru/Ayers Rock, so much so that they tell you very little about it. From one
of the viewpoints I could see two more large rock formations in the protected
Aboriginal land; I imagine that these are probably even more sacred to their
custodians. I hope that they can keep them tourist-free.


Never having been on a camel before, I didn't know what to expect from a Sunset
Camel Tour. The cameleers who arrange the tours were very good at putting their
customers at ease and soon after our arrival at the camel farm, _K_ and I were
on our camel for the evening: _Bendy_ (short for Bendigo). _Bendy_ is the
tallest camel in the chain and was half-way along the chain giving us great
views of not only the wondrous scenery around us but the rest of the camels and
their riders.


We set off across the red sandy desert with our fly-nets installed (our walk
around Kata Tjuta taught us that the flies in the area love fly-repellent and
will make a beeline (fly line?) for the lugholes of anyone who'd ever worn it)
and took in the spectacular views as the sun set to the west of Kata Tjuta. The
Olgas and Uluru/Ayers Rock looked magnificent, as did the skies around us as the
day drew to a close.


We were somewhat surprised when after the tour had ended we were offered smoked
camel as a snack with a glass of wine! Still, having eaten barbecued crocodile,
emu and kangaroo the previous evening, we were game and the camel was very tasty
indeed.


Yesterday we got up very early (so early that it couldn't yet be called bright
and early), collected our things from the dormitory and headed for Uluru/Ayers
Rock to watch the sunrise. Sadly, the clouds had descended overnight and this
meant that the sunrise wasn't the magnificent spectacle that we had hoped for.
It also turned out to be a lot damper than we'd hoped for.


The early morning drive back along the Lasseter Highway turned out to be very
perilous. We found ourselves having to stop for herds of wild camels, wild cows
and wild, wild horses! There was even a flock of galahs sitting in the road at
one point. We reached Kings Canyon having collected only flying insects on the
front of _The Beast_. The sun was not yet at its hottest, so we took the short
walk along the creek to take in the impressive views of the red, rugged
landscape.


The afternoon was to be spent on the highway collecting yet more bug splat on
the windscreen. By tea-time we had reached our destination: Alice Springs, which
is where we shall be spending the next couple of days. It's great to be in a YHA
again, I'm really enjoying the hostelling experience. The people you meet are
both interesting and interested and the standard of accommodation is really very
good. In most cases the hostels we have stayed at have been nicer, friendlier
places than the hotels and only cost a fraction of the price. It's also nice to
be away from the hordes of tourists. The area around Uluru-Kata Tjuta National
Park was full of white tour buses and white campervans, which made me feel like
part of a herd when driving our white Ford Laser. It's a good feeling to be
travellers, just doing our own thing.

