---
layout: post
title: Shrove Tuesday
---

Happy Pancake Day, dear reader. I must say that you are looking fabulous today.


Shrove Tuesday is one of the very best days of the year. Days when pancake
consumption (with lemon juice and sugar, naturally) is encouraged are to be
celebrated heartily!


Tomorrow is Ash Wednesday, which is (rather appropriately) the day that
Anti-Smoking laws change here in Victoria. This will mean that smoking at bus or
tram stops will be illegal. This may signal the start of long delays on the
public transport in Melbourne: as I understand it, the one way of guaranteeing
the instant arrival of your bus or tram is to extract a cigarette from its
packet, put it between your lips and set it alight. We shall see. I hope this
doesn't cause too many problems from the influx of visitors expected to arrive
in a fortnight for the 2006 Commonwealth Games.


On the subject of The Games, keep your eyes peeled for us on the television.
Yesterday _K_ bought two tickets for the closing ceremony, which I reckon will
be pretty fantastic.


I have just changed this paragraph as I have taken a phone call to say that we
have been accepted for our second choice of flat, which is a huge relief. It
means that we're not going to be homeless during the upcoming games. According
the letting agent, who tells me that she had a choice of three couples, she had
to choose us because the agent who conducted the flat inspection said that were
the nicest couple! We are due to sign the lease tomorrow and move in a week on
Saturday. We are going to chase the agents on our preferred flat as the
facilities there are better and at the same rental cost.


On the subject of successful applications, I'm delighted that two of my good
friends have emailed me to say that they've got exciting new jobs. One is in
West Africa involving pyramids of Fererro Rocher. The other is working in the
best industry in the world: booze! _K_ and I wish them both all the very best in
their new positions.


This time next week, _K_, herself, will be settled in at her new office
overlooking Albert Park and impressing her colleagues with her charm and
knowledge of how water works (work).


I have no news to report on my own quest for gainful employment except to say
that my r&eacute;sum&eacute; has been delivered to a select few mailboxes in the
city. I'm being particularly choosy with the positions that I am applying for
while I can afford to be, which is good. Thank you for the kind words which have
arrived in my own mailbox. I can only apologise for the lack of email coming
from me at the moment, but I'm sure you'll understand that I'm not ignoring you.
I look forward to a day when I can sit in our new flat and email you all
wirelessly without feeding golden coins into a machine or being bombarded with
the most depressing music at volumes that even an iPodful of heavy metal would
struggle to drown out!


<strong>Update:</strong> It's All Good! We've got our first choice of flat. Even
better than all that, we can move in TOMORROW! Very chuffed indeed.

