---
layout: post
title: Kondinin
---




The reader joins us, on [James Dane](http://www.dane-online.org/)'s birthday, in
Kondinin, which I believe is Aboriginal for _the posterior of nowhere_!


To pick up the story from where we left off... ...we did climb a big tree on
Sunday. Or at least, _K_ did. I got 25m up and decided that I'd had enough. I
don't consider myself to be afraid of heights, but climbing pegs around the
outside of 75m tree was enough to make me get a bit dry in the mouth and a bit
wobbly in the legs. The views from 25m were pretty spectacular. _K_ kindly
brought my camera to the very top of The Bicentennial Tree and too some shots
from there. They're pretty impressive, too. Again, once I get a decent Internet
connection, you will be able to share in these photographs. A decent Internet
connection is now a necessity before the end of the month as I'm informed that
Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs require that I file a tax return for 2004/05
by the end of January. Deep joy!


Back to the trees... We left Pemberton bright and early on Monday morning and
headed off for some more tall trees. The Treetop Walk in The Valley of the
Giants was _Mrs J_'s must-see in West-urn Australia and it was conveniently
situated on our route from Pemberton to Albany. On this occasion, I managed the
entire 600m bridged walkway, which ascends to 40m above the ground without any
problems, even when the walkway started swaying considerably! The views were
spectacular!


Even more interesting than The Treetop Walk was the (free) Empire walk, through
the various gum trees. It's fantastic the way these indigenous trees recover
from forest fires.


We stopped off _en route_ to Albany at _Denmark_'s Ocean Beach for a lunchtime
picnic and to watch the young surfers take lessons. We both quite fancied
joining in, actually. Once back on the road we made good time down to Albany,
making it to the YHA before their office opened for the evening. We paid a visit
to The Old Gaol, but to be honest once you've seen one old colonial prison,
you've pretty much seen them all.


Rocks seem to be the big thing at the moment. Albany houses a rock at the side
of the road, which locals claim looks like a dog. We wandered up to take a look
at it, and, with the help of the signs of a couple of local businesses that take
their name from _Dog Rock_ and a helpfully painted-on dog collar, we could make
out why they name the rock _Dog Rock_, but if you look at it form the other
side, it looks more like a bottlenose dolphin. Far more interesting, if you ask
me (and even if you don't: it's my blog), were the pink parrots flying overhead.
The birds here are amazing, so brightly coloured.


Today's activities have been largely rock-related, too. We've driven about 500
kilometres (_paj_'s rule of thumb for converting kilometres to miles, stick a
zero on the end and half four times {500, 5000, 2500, 1250, 625, 313}, simple!)
inland to see the phenomenom that is _Wave Rock_. Again, you'll have to wait to
see the snaps. Nearby is the _Hippo's Yawn_, which is another huge rock that if
you squint sideways in the right light after the correct amount of alcohol,
you'll see looks astoundingly akin to a hippopotamus yawing. Really.


Bizarrely, having driven so far, I'm sure that today we've seen more horses made
of tin than we have seen cars! The Tin Horse Highway stretches for 20km {20,
200, 100, 50, 25, 12.5} from East to West Kulin. This proved a useful source of
amusement on the long stretch from Wagin, The Home of The Big Ram. The Big Ram
being our fourth Big Thing, keeping our average above one per week.


We stopped driving before twilight as that's when the kangaroos start foraging
and we didn't want to be hitting one of those with _The Beast_. Kondinin
presented itself as a friendly enough town with a couple of motels. The one
we've chosen to stop at has a bar next-door, which is dead handy. This is a
small town (population _c._250) and just to prove what a small world it is, the
barmaid went to the same school as a guy I used to work with!


