---
layout: post
title: Ceduna
---

Ceduna, it transpires, is the home of The Big Oyster! Our Big Things average is
going through the roof, I tell you!


A Big Oyster, which was not all that big to be honest with you was not all that
huge, was not enough to keep us in Ceduna, though and we were soon in the belly
of _The Beast_ and heading for the Orient once more.


It appeared that we'd stumbled unwittingly into The Lake District as the heavens
opened and we were in the middle of a massive downpour. And then for a while,
every town we passed seemed to be the same as the last with a bowling / golf
club, a pub and a massive grain store.


Kimba marks the half-way point between the East and West coasts of this giant
continent. We acknowledged this by parking outside the snappily-titled _Half Way
Across Australia Gift Shop_ and taking a photograph of the great Galah that
stands in their car park.


Eager to make it more than half-way to our destination, we set off at the
national speed limit, continuing due East. Our enthusiasm was overwhelmed only
by a lack of petrol as we approached _Iron Knob_. The sign outside the petrol
station declaring &quot;Come in, we are open&quot; was betrayed by the locked
doors and the closed shutters. Thankfully, there were ten litres of petrol in a
handy red can in the boot of _The Beast_. This was more than enough to get us to
our planned stop.


Port Augusta is Australia's crossroads. To the North lie Alice Springs and
Uluru, to the East, Sydney. South is Adelaide and if you want to know what lies
to the West, then I suggest you go back and read the previous ten blog entries!
Tonight _K_ and I shall lie in Port Augusta, having found that the hostel we had
planned on staying was no longer there and the hotel we had as a backup was
closed. We have found a nice room above a pub, though for not-too-many dollars.
Sadly, this does not seem to include WiFi.


Food will be served shortly, so I shall wrap up here by announcing that we have
changed our planned route around Australia and that we are now going to continue
to the East Coast. It seems a fair number of our friends and family are going to
be in Sydney towards the end of this month and it would be a shame to miss them
all by arriving there after they have left. I'm looking forward to seeing Sydney
again and our friends that live there. More news as it happens.


