---
layout: post
title: Devil's Marbles
---




The YHA at Alice Springs comes highly recommended. Not only does it have
super-quiet air-conditioning that keeps the bedrooms nice and cold all day (and
night) long, it has a lovely swimming pool in the garden that is just right for
a mid-afternoon dip to cool off when the fluid in the thermometer has passed the
fifty degree line marking the end of its calibration!


The poolside is good for sunbathing, if you're into that kind of thing; reading
(which _Mrs J_ can do anywhere, even in the pool) or for updating your online
journal. I have opted for the latter, following a text message from a friend
insisting that I 'get that next blog up'. Sadly, you'll have to wait to read
this entry (just like the four previous ones) until I find a way of getting them
from my laptop (or my camera) onto a computer with Internet connectivity. It
seems using your laptop or USB device in Alice Springs is not an option. I
should really get a dial-up account over here or a cable so that I can use the
GPRS modem in my mobile.


All that aside, we're having a great time here in Alice Springs. We managed to
get a replacement for my deceased Sony Cybershot. For those that are interested,
the camera that met my criteria (compact digital camera with an optical
viewfinder that would take non-proprietary batteries) and that was on sale in
the aptly-named Alice Springs Camera Shop was the Pentax Optio S50. It's a bit
bigger than my old digital camera (perhaps I should eBay that, given past
experience), but it fits nicely in my pocket and, so that's okay. In the hands
of a decent photographer it would probably capture far better digital images,
but that's by-the-by.


To make the most of our time in The Town Formerly Known As Stuart, we visited a
few of the local museums yesterday. Firstly, the Telegraph Repeater Station,
around which the current town was formed then The Ghan Heritage Museum and the
National Museum of Transport. The last two are right next to each other but
demand separate entry fees and offer no discount for visiting them both. The
Telegraph Repeater Station was very interesting, with lots of informative
signage and a helpful leaflet for self-guided tours. The Ghan Heritage Museum
(home to The Ghan Preservation Society, which reminds me of a song from a film)
was a bit of a disappointment, to be honest. There were a number of exhibits
around the museum they just seemed to be random artefacts with no rhyme nor
reason for their being there. Likewise, the National Museum of Transport was
just a collection of old trucks and many vintage cars which were lacking in
tender loving care. It was a crying shame to see Ford Model Ts, a vintage Rolls
Royce and (back to The Italian Job) an Austin Cooper S looking so uncared for.
On the upside, I got to play with my new toy and took a 4-shot panorama of the
Ghan carriages.


We treated ourselves to a meal out at Keller's restaurant in town. The Big Yin
once ate their and described their menu that claims both Swiss and Indian
influences as &quot;Bloody Un-usual&quot;. He was right, the menu is a break
from the norm, but it's a refreshing change. The restaurant is well-staffed and
the quality of the food is very good. We certainly felt that we got value for
money and would recommend it. It seems that BYO isn't such a big thing here in
Northern Territory, but that's okay because the wine lists are pretty
reasonable, too!


Today we headed North along the Stuart Highway, crossing The Tropic of
Capricorn, passing hundreds of termite mounds and arriving at The Devil's
Marbles. Like so many rock formations in Australia, The Devil's Marbles are a
Sacred Aboriginal site. They are phenomenal, though. Pictures will follow once
we get a decent connection. I'd recommend that you look at _K_'s, though, as I
was playing with the exposure settings on the camera and so I ruined a fair few
of my shots. We live and learn, eh? 800km may seem like a long way to go to take
photographs of big rocks, but it didn't seem that far (even though we left the
iPod in the YHA). Having left bright and early this morning, we were back in the
hostel before four o'clock, which leaves us plenty of time to relax on the
anniversary of us submitting our visa application by Royal Mail.


Although they were only a little further than half-way up the country, The
Devil's Marbles mark the furthest North that we're going to venture on this
trip. Tomorrow we start the journey South towards Melbourne. We've got plenty
more (big) things to see before we get to our final destination, but it now
feels as if we're on the last leg of our journey which is a little bit sad
because I've come to quite enjoy life on the road. That said, recently we have
found ourselves starting sentences with phrases such as &quot;When we've got our
own place...&quot; and &quot;When we're earning...&quot;, so perhaps it is right
that this time is drawing ever-closer.


I wonder how long it will be before reality strikes that this trip is not _just_
an extended holiday...

