---
layout: post
title: Pemberton
---




I have a few moments to myself, so I thought I'd pop another blog entry onto my
camera's Memory Stick to be uploaded next time I am online. I also have a load
of photographs to share with you, but slow Internet connections with an hourly
rate aren't ideal for uploading them. For the time being you shall have to make
do with a few hundred words instead of the pictures, for which I can only
apologise.


We're currently in Pemberton, staying in a wooden-built Villa attached to the
YHA backpackers' hostel. We've pretty much had the villa to ourselves since we
arrived yesterday afternoon, which is nice.


Last time I updated the blog we were considering a trip to the Fudge Factory in
Margaret River. This was indeed our first stop of the day. We didn't spend long
there, though, as there was little more to see than lots of sugary merchandise.


_K_ suggested a visit to The Giants Cave (there was no apostrophe on the sign,
so I have no idea if this was a cave of one or many giants, sorry). This sounded
like a far better idea than stuffing ourselves full of chocolate, fudge, caramel
and milkshakes, so off we went.


Ten dollars gets you a helmet, a big torch and a few spoken words from the guide
on the cave. After that, you're pretty much on your own with a huge, unlit
underground cave. As we decended the steps towards the mouth of the cave, we
could feel the temperature dropping considerably. I cannot recall what the
outside temperature was on Friday (I think it was Friday, the days are all
merging into one, now), but it has been in the thirties most days since we
landed in Western Australia. The temperature in the cave was a pleasant 17
degrees celcius with 90% humidity. There were a lot of steps down into the main
cave and with the torches off it was pitch black. Having established how dark it
would be with no torchlight, we kept the bulbs burning brightly until we reached
the far end and exit of the cave. There was a huge, sand-floored 'ballroom',
where the roof was many metres above our heads. I forget now if that was before
or after the ladder climbs. I tried with varying degrees of success to take
photographs in the dark of the roots of the trees above us as well as the many
calcium-based structures that had formed in the cave, I shall put them on
[Flickr](https://flickr.com/photos/johnsyweb/) sometime for you to criticise.


We opted then to head to Australia's most South-Westerly point for a spot of
lunch.  Augusta marks the point where the Indian Ocean meets the Southern Ocean
and has the third-tallest lighthouse in Australia. It also has a calcified
water-wheel and quite a few flies (have I mentioned the flies before?). Other
than that, Augusta is a pretty unremarkable town.


Back in Margaret River we made the most of the hostel's outdoor swimming pool,
which was just the ticket after spending a lot of the day in _The Beast_. We had
a barbecue by the pool that evening and enjoyed a bottle of Chardonnay that
we'd picked up Edward's winery.


The journey from Margaret River to Pemberton was a hot one. I shall have to look
out for a thermometer as _The Beast_ doesn't have one built in. I think that
yesterday was probably the hottest day since we landed.  I'm glad that we have
the iPod and relevant adaptors with us, as there are vast stretches of road
where there is no radio reception. The GSM phones lose reception regularly in
between towns, much like the radio. For this reason we have a CDMA phone in case
of emergencies (thanks to [Mr Moore](https://www.thmoore.org/) for the tip!).
About half of the journey was on an unsealed road. Kilometres of loose red
gravel on which the car tends to find its own tracks. Thankfully this road was
mostly straight meaning that it wasn't too much work keeping the car heading in
the direction that we wanted to head and at the speed we wanted to head there.
It was amusing to consult the rear-view mirror and to witness the plumes of red
dust left in our wake!


We stopped thrice along the way, firstly in _Nannup_ for a quick stretch of the
legs and secondly in _Manjimup_ for a bite to eat. Both towns were remarkably
quiet for a Saturday, possibly even quieter that Augusta, one can only imagine
what these places are like on a Sunday! Our other stop was at _The Four Aces_,
four huge karri trees believed to be over 300 years old.


The first thing that struck me as we arrived at the hostel in Pemberton was
_Live After Death_ (in my opinion the finest of Iron Maiden's live albums) was
playing loudly in the office (in fact it is playing again today), I knew I was
going to like it here. We were shown to our room in the villa and told that
every Saturday all guests are invited to a free sausage-sizzle. What a nice
welcome!


We had a few hours before the barbecue was lit and discovered that there was not
only a winery but a brewery on the outskirts of town. We drove up to _Jarrah
Jack's Cracker Jack_ brewery, where I tried all six of their beers ($10 for a
rack of six glasses, about a third of a pint each). We picked up a six-pack to
take with us to the barbecue. At the barbecue we got chatting to a couple of
guys who we'd also met at the previous hostel. We joined them for a couple of
drinks at the local pub / restaurant / betting shop / drive-through off-license
afterwards. I was glad of those few beers as it meant that I got straight to
sleep when I got back to the villa, despite the wedding reception in the hall
next door. Sadly, the effects had worn off by the time the cockerel began to
herald the crack of dawn this morning. Hey-ho.


After lunch today, we're planning on climbing a big tree or two. Stay tuned.

