---
layout: post
title: Everything Louder Than Everything Else
---


This time yesterday I was at [The
Forum](https://www.marrinertheatres.com.au/hireforum.htm). My ears are still
buzzing after the gig. [Mot&ouml;rhead](https://www.imotorhead.com/), [Rose
Tattoo](https://rosetattoo.com.au/) and
[Airbourne](https://www.airbournerock.com/) were on the bill.


I'd never heard of Airbourne before, they weren't even on the ticket, but they
were pretty good. Certainly loud and enthusiastic. And they're local boys, too,
so it's good to see a local band on the bill with such big names.


I first heard of Rose Tattoo on a local radio station [Gold
104](https://www.1043fm.com.au/) about a year ago, when I used to drive to work.
I quite liked the tracks that they played on the radio, but never saw fit to
actually buy one of their albums. In fact I'd never even looked them up on the
web. Only now do I see that the lead singer is [Angry
Anderson](https://www.myspace.com/therealangryanderson), responsible for that
wedding music in Neighbours all those years ago! Rock and roll.


[Mot&ouml;rhead](https://www.imotorhead.com/) were who I'd paid to see, though.
I've been a fan of theirs for years but had never seen them live until last
night. It was amazing to see [Lemmy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lemmy)
thrashing out chords on his trusty [Rickenbacker
bass](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rickenbacker#Basses). I'd heard that
Mot&ouml;rhead were the loudest band in the World and _wow_ were they loud!
Certainly the loudest rock band I have ever seen.


The highlight of the gig for me was Lemmy's dedication of _Rosalie_ to one of
the greatest bass players to walk this Earth. Yes, they _did_ play [Ace of
Spades](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ace_of_Spades_%28song%29) and yes it was
amazing, but Rosalie was just that little bit different.


Even more different, and unexpected was the song before that... [Whorehouse
Blues](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjVLf8UTsXc): an acoustic number, for
those of you not familiar with Mot&ouml;rhead's back catalogue. Even that was
loud. It was funny to see Lemmy with a cigarette in one hand and a mouth organ
in the other!


I suspect the tinnitus will die down just in time for me to go to Phillip Island
on Sunday to see the Moto GP!

