---
layout: post
title: 'Thank you, all. #wgs'
---

I realise that I have been harping on about [Leukaemia
Foundation](https://www.leukaemia.org.au/web/index.php)'s [World's Greatest
Shave](https://www.worldsgreatestshave.com/) a lot over the past four weeks. It's
all done and dusted now and so I justed wanted to wrap up with a thank you to
everyone who supported me, particularly in the past 24 hours.


When I woke up yesterday morning, I was anxious about the day ahead. Having
never had my legs waxed, I was concerned about the pain that lay ahead,
particularly given the very hairy nature of my legs. At 12:30, I went to [Claire
Fran&ccedil;oise](https://www.clairefrancoise.com.au/)'s salon and after a brief
wait was led to a little room with a couch and a bucket of hot wax.
[_K_](https://thribble.blogspot.com.au/) came in too, to take some photographs
for you people, which I will upload later today.


I have to say, folks, that my anxiety was for nothing. Claire was very fast and
in no time at all, I was looking down on a pair of freshly-waxed, pale white,
freckle-covered legs. I was reminded of an early scene in Spike Milligan's book
'Puckoon', where The Milligan is giving out to The Author on writing such legs.


Back at the office, I was told that it was now time to go downstairs for my head
shave. This was never a part of the plan, but there we go. There was a WGS event
happening on the ground floor of my office block, so it seemed appropriate to do
it there and then where some of my sponsors could witness the event first-hand.
You will have to make-do with the photographs!


This morning, after an hour locked away in the bathroom (during a thunderstorm
for effect) with a large tub of Veet and a Mach III, I emerged with smooth arms,
chest and head. Again, there will be photos online later today.

You've kindly donated $2,120 to the Leukaemia Foundation. I'm extremely grateful
for your generosity. And now, I have to concentrate on hair growth ahead of my
brother's wedding in Swindon, England on 12 June. Thank you very much.

