---
layout: post
title: Yes, I'm back on Facebook
---

[![Pete Johns](http://badge.facebook.com/badge/100000356313462.203.446369061.png "Pete Johns")](http://en-gb.facebook.com/johnsyweb)]

You may recall that back in January [I deleted my Facebook
account](http://www.flickr.com/photos/johnsyweb/3236368701/). The main reason
for doing so was to free up more time. To be honest with you, haven't found that
I have had _that_ much spare time in the months that followed. I didn't miss
Facebook _at all_ and most people didn't even realise I had deleted my account.
So that was nice.


Unfortunately, what I hadn't reckoned on was that
[Kirsty](http://johnsy.com/thribble/blog/) would become a Pete Proxy for many
people's words and pictures and that was a bit of a pain. Neither had I counted
on the fact that some people would discontinue their blogs and opt for Facebook
notes instead. And I _like_ to nosey into my friends' lives in my RSS reader!


Despite the plethora of ways to contact me electronically [(listed
here)](http://johnsy.com/contact/), it transpired that I was an e-outcast, a
social e-leper without a Facebook account.


While I was off work sick on Monday, I did the unthinkable and signed up for a
new account, the main reason being so that Kirsty is no longer the Proxy Pete.


So now that I am &quot;back&quot; what does this mean? Well, hopefully it'll
mean that I'm a bit easier to keep in touch with for those of you who don't
&quot;do&quot; email or [Twitter](http://twitter.com/johnsyweb) or
[Skype](http://share.skype.com/in/102/149282) or blogs or whatever.


There are a couple of RSS feeds to which I can subscribe to see my friends notes
and any notifications that may concern me. Direct messages come straight to my
inbox, so I can reply to those as a normal email, which will continue to be my
preference for such things. [Adium](http://adium.im/), my instant messaging
application of choice, &quot;talks&quot; directly to Facebook, so I can use the
inbuilt messaging _without having to visit the webpage_, which is, frankly,
_brilliant_. My status updates will come from Twitter integration, my
photographs directly from [Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/photos/johnsyweb/) and
my &quot;notes&quot; are just my long-running blog delivered to Facebook via
RSS. If only I could still view your status updates in my RSS reader!


So the workflow of using Facebook shouldn't take up as much time as it did with
my previous account. That's the theory anyway. You can help minimise the time I
waste on Facebook by not sending me applications or group requests. That would
be great! Thank you so much.


It's nice to be back in touch, it really is. I just wish there was another way.
Perhaps I should open a pub...

