---
layout: post
title: Eamonn
---

_Wow!_


I'm a _Dad_! This is something that is still sinking in. As my friend
Chris said in [a tweet](https://twitter.com/catpain/status/19310899223)
this week, &quot;Forewarned is utterly, entirely _not_ forearmed, is
it?!&quot;


He is right.


On Thursday morning I was filed with so much more joy than I ever thought I had
the capacity for. I had heard how amazing is the miracle of birth, but being
there for the birth of our son was an experience that no words can describe.
Really.


Since that precious moment I have been finding a new appreciation for almost
everything. I now understand why new parents feel the need to share the minutiae
of everything their first-born does: each little thing is just so new and so
exciting. I have a whole new appreciation of what our parents have done to get
us to this point in our lives and I can never thank them enough. Grandparents
really do deserve congratulations on the birth of a grandchild even if they say
they didn't do anything!


Thank you to all of you who have sent messages of congratulations, love and
support to _K_, _E_ and me. We're hugely grateful and as soon as we have the
time and the energy we'll be in touch. At the moment we are still catching up on
sleep, on washing and enjoying time with our beautiful baby boy!


The biggest thanks of all go to _K_ who has just done so much over the past nine
months to produce a healthy baby. I am hugely proud of her, particularly for the
amount of effort required to introduce _E_ to the outside world, she really was
wonderful.


I shall put some more photos up on
[Flickr](https://www.flickr.com/photos/johnsyweb/sets/72157624556939168/) over
the coming days especially for our friends and our family overseas.

