---
layout: post
title: New beef with Facebook
---

Yesterday morning I had an email from <a
href="https://www.facebook.com/">Facebook</a> letting me know that a friend had
&quot;tagged&quot; me on his profile. This sounded fair enough, we're friends
after all. It went on to say that he tagged me under &quot;University&quot; with
the name of my _alma mater_.


Curious, I logged into the website and saw the name of my former university _on
my profile_! When [I signed back up for
Facebook](https://thribble.blogspot.com.au/), I deliberately withheld this
information and now it's on my profile.

But he tagged me on _his_ profile, you said!


Details of which university I attended, the years I was there, my course and
grades are all available elsewhere on the Internet; it's not a secret! But
having deliberately chosen not to put this information into Mark Zuckerberg's
databases, it's infuriating that _anybody_ can enter this information on my
behalf and without my permission.


This morning I had a play around with Facebook, adding
[MI6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MI6),
[CONTROL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Get_Smart#CONTROL) and [St Trinian's
School](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St_Trinian's_School) to friends' profiles.
It's remarkably easy.

Some financial institutions use the name of people's first school and similar
information as answers to security questions. It's a huge concern that these
answers can be disclosed, unwittingly, by our friends.

Although I was able to remove the information from my profile, I've searched
through Facebook's privacy settings, and I can see no way to prevent this
information being disclosed, in the first place. I see this as a huge security
risk.


If you're a Facebook user (and the chances are very high that you are), please
take a moment to review the information you disclose and also your privacy
settings. [Sophos's recommendations for Facebook
settings](https://www.sophos.com/security/best-practice/facebook/) are a good
guideline.

