---
layout: post
title: Movember
date: 2011-10-19 00:00:00.000000000 +10:00
updated_at: 2025-12-18 00:00:00 +11:00
---

Hi,

It's _Movember_ and time to focus on men's health. To show my commitment, I'm
donating my face to the cause by growing a moustache for the entire month of
November, and need your support. My Mo will spark conversations, and no doubt
generate some laughs; all in the name of raising vital awareness and funds for
prostate cancer male depression.

Why am I so passionate about men's health?

- 1 in 9 men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer in their lifetime
- This year 20,000 new cases of the disease will be diagnosed
- 1 in 8 men will experience depression in their lifetime

I'm asking you to support my _Movember_ campaign by making a donation. This campaign has since concluded, but you can always support [Movember Foundation's ongoing work][movember-foundation].

Funds raised will help make a tangible difference to the lives of others.
Through the _Movember_ Foundation and its men's health partners, the Prostate
Cancer Foundation of Australia and beyondblue — the national depression
initiative, they are funding world class research, educational and support
programs which would otherwise not be possible.

If you'd like to find out more about the type of work being funded
by supporting Movember, take a look at the [Movember website][movember-about].

Thank you to all who supported men's health awareness.

[movember-foundation]: https://movember.com/
[movember-about]: https://au.movember.com/about
