---
layout: post
title: "++career"
date: 2012-12-06
updated_at: 2025-12-17
---

Like a (publicly undisclosed) number of others around the globe, I left ITG on
Tuesday as the company took measures [to reduce operating costs][itg-release].


My rather sudden departure came as a surprise to many (it seems) and I've
received many messages of astonishment and encouragement. I have responded to
many of these messages privately to thank the senders for their kind words but I
found myself repeating a lot of words. During my time at ITG I worked hard to
reduce inefficiencies and waste and improve communications. It seems like an
obvious step, therefore, to reduce duplication and to write publicly as much as
I can about my departure, my current situation and whatever comes next.


I didn't _know_ that my time at ITG was going to end when it did but I was sure
that a “reduction in force” was coming and that my position would be a
candidate for redundancy. I was prepared for this and wasn't surprised when I
got the proverbial tap on the shoulder.


Without going into any details, I had been unhappy with a number of aspects
about my last project that were outside of my control. They were outside of my
superiors' control, too, which made my situation very frustrating. I hung in
there, doing the best I could under the circumstances, out of respect and
admiration for those around me who were also doing their best. When I was told
that my position was made redundant, it came as a huge relief. I feel for those
who are left behind who will inevitably be asked to do more with less, at least
in the short-term.


In my time at ITG I worked with many of the best professionals I have known. The
leadership team in Asia Pacific is superb; I want them to know that I respect
their decision and wish them well for the time ahead. I shall miss working with
everybody in the Melbourne office but am sure the friendships we've formed will
last well into the future.


When I called Kirsty to give her the news, she was delighted! It's going to be
good for her to have her old husband back. I am looking forward to starting the
Summer (for that's what this time of year is called in Australia) with Kirsty
and with Eamonn and just being a husband and a father for a while. It's going to
be a good Christmas and we've a couple of trips away already planned for
January.


What's next for me career-wise? I don't know for sure. I'm going to use this
new-found spare time to tinker with some new (to me) technologies and see what's
out there for me to play with. I want to contribute to some worthwhile
open-source projects like [OpenMRS][openmrs]. I may revive this
sadly-neglected blog and write about my experiences as I play. I hope that this
will help me form a clearer picture of what I want out of a job so that I can
dust off my résumé
(or CV, if you prefer) and go out there and either find it or make it. It's an
exciting time!

[itg-release]: https://investor.itg.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=100516&p=RssLanding&cat=news&id=1764371
[openmrs]: https://openmrs.org/

