---
layout: post
category: running
title: My year of running
date: 2015-03-01 15:04:31
---

Today, [I ran](http://www.strava.com/activities/261246096) as part of a
[Corporate Triathlon](http://corptriseries.com.au/melbourne) relay team with my
amazing colleagues. Had you told me a year ago that I would be doing this, I'm
not sure I would have believed you. This is the story of how I got there...

## February

I'd never heard of "[Couch to
5K](http://www.nhs.uk/Livewell/c25k/Pages/get-running-with-couch-to-5k.aspx)"
before and then I heard a few people talk about it in different contexts. I was
on a tram home from work when I looked it up and wondered whether I'd be able to
do it. I don't think I'd run more than about 100m in one go before; since my
school days I have gravitated away from the sports field and towards the
computer lab. Yet, I'd lost some weight at the beginning of the year through
being more selective with my diet and I was both keen to keep that weight off
and to do more exercise. [Eamonn](/blog/2010/07/25/eamonn/) is a very energetic
lad and keeping up with him around the local parks would often leave me
breathless. I downloaded a [Couch to 5K
app](http://www.active.com/mobile/couch-to-5k-app), and told
[Kirsty](http://thribble.blogspot.com/) I was going to give it a shot. She
didn't laugh. That night, armed with some tunes and an iPhone app, I set off
towards [Merri Creek](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merri_Creek) on my first
jog. I was out-of-breath and ready to stop a very short period, but just then
the app told me to walk. It kept me going. After about a half-an-hour and 2 km,
I returned home out-of-breath and sweating profusely but felt like I had started
something...

## March

Having completed a week or so of Couch to 5K, I bought myself some running
shoes. I told my brother about my adventures and he recommended I use
[Endomondo](https://www.endomondo.com/profile/14938524) to track my runs. Being
a data nerd and believing that you can't improve what you can't measure,
Endomondo appealed to me. It also gave me regular feedback on a run as to how
far I'd travelled and at what pace. By the end of March, I'm able to do 4.29 km
in 33m:41s. Nearly there! I've also switched from running in the evening to
preferring early morning runs.

## April

Towards the end of the Couch to 5K I was still doing just four-point-something
kilometres in a session, never quite reaching the target. Rather than get
frustrated by this, I just kept running past the end of the programme. On 8
April I did an extra lap of the local high school grounds to clock up 5.18 km
and felt pretty happy. I completed the distance twice more that week to prove it
wasn't a fluke. The following week, I clocked up 6 km in about the same time I'd
run my first 5 km. Not speedy, but getting faster! On Easter Monday I headed out
for an early morning run before Kirsty and Eamonn were awake. I couldn't find my
earphones and decided that rather than wake them up tearing the house apart to
find the earphones, I'd try running without them. I'd heard that people run
better without music. All I could hear as I ran along my usual route was the
wheezing of an old bloke who'd overindulged over the long weekend. It was
horrible and I vowed <a name="vow"></a>never to run without music again.

For most of the Couch to 5K, Kirsty had been on at me to sign up for a run, the
[Motherâ€™s Day Classic](http://www.mothersdayclassic.com.au/). The MDC includes a
4km and an 8km run around Melbourne's iconic [Tan
Track](http://scrumage.com/blog/2011/08/the-tan/). I can comfortably run 6km, so
faced with the choice, I opt to stretch for 8km and book my place on 22 April
for the run on 11 May. I start training the next day and the day after that, I
rode to work from our home in Coburg for the first time (expect a cycling post
sometime this year).

Looking back, having an iPhone app that can get a geek out from behind a
computer screen and running 6km from _nothing_ in the space of a couple of
months is _amazing_. I bet Steve Jobs never envisaged that when he launched the
device and the App Store!

## May

Cycling to work and back on a Wednesday seems to be helping with my fitness and
I'm finding the running a little easier. On my fifth training run I made the 8km
distance and I'm happy that I'll be able to run the MDC without keeling over.
There's the Anderson Street Hill to consider, but how hard can a hill be, eh? It
turns out... it _is_ hard!

Race day came around quickly and I'm standing near the start line in Alexandra
Gardens. I'd got there very early, because it was my first running event I had
no idea what to expect. I'm wearing my race number (11564) and have some new
tunes lined up to listen to on the clockwise circuit. I'm not sure whether I'm
nervous or excited. My friend Ross' advice was echoing in my ear, "There will be
marathon runners: don't try to keep up with them and go at your own pace. And
speed up when you get to the hill". Music is pumping near the start line, and
then we're off! I ran as hard as I could and, having started near the front,
people are absolutely whizzing past me. Before I knew it I was halfway up
Anderson Street Hill and I feel like every blood vessel in my body is about to
explode. I don't hear what Endomondo says my pace was at the end of the first
kilometre, but it started with a five: I'd never heard that before. I took my
right earphone out and I can hear lots of fellow runners pounding away at the
pavement and I don't seem to be wheezing the most. I can do this! The second lap
was much much harder. I kept as far to the left as I could manage as I climbed
Anderson Street for the second time. It felt like Everest and I wanted to give
other runners as much space as I could. I was struggling to put one foot in
front of the other and was hugely relieved to reach the summit. According to
[Endomondo's graph](http://app.endomondo.com/workouts/337722146/14938524), my
pace dropped to 11:33 min/km... I walk faster than that! I was *so* pleased to
reach the finish line three kilometres later.

I only ran once more that month and it wasn't even 5km.

## June

For the first couple of weeks of June I'd not even put on my running shoes.
After completing the Couch to 5km and the MDC I think I'd lost motivation. I
went in search of some targets and found The [Run
Melbourne](http://www.runmelbourne.com.au/) was in about a month's time and had
a 10 km run. If I can do 8 km, I can do 10 km, right?

I'd [registered](http://www.parkrun.com.au/register/) for
[parkrun](http://www.parkrun.com.au/) back in May but had never actually
attended a run. I decided that it was time I found out what all the fuss was
about... it would serve as good training for my next event. There are were a few
parkruns around Melbourne but I chose [Westerfolds
parkrun](http://www.parkrun.com.au/westerfolds/) as [my first
run](http://www.parkrun.com.au/westerfolds/results/weeklyresults/?runSeqNumber=35).
Westerfolds parkrun was a lot more relaxed than the MDC. The organisers were
welcoming and friendly and so were the runners. The course is lovely, too: there
are beautiful views, flora and fauna. Sometimes I see kangaroos hopping around
as I run there. Westerfolds Park has become my favourite place to run in
Melbourne. Somebody recently described it to me as "The
[Bathurst](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bathurst_1000) of running". My weekly
parkruns have become the heartbeat of my running schedule and my fellow
parkrunners have become good friends.

## July

My friend Gary introduced me to
[Strava](https://www.strava.com/athletes/5507469) in July. Strava is a lot like
Endomondo but has even more data (for nerds like me) and more of my friends are
on it. I said before that parkrunners are friendly, they're also very
encouraging; I don't think I've done a run yet where a fellow parkrunner hasn't
given me kudos on Strava. It has become my favourite tracker (but I haven't
locked myself into just one).

The [Run Melbourne 10 km](https://www.strava.com/activities/171370359/overview)
was one of my best runs of the year. It was the first time that I'd managed to
run consistently under 6 minutes per kilometre and I finished comfortably in
under the hour that I'd targeted. What's more, I was less tired at the end of
this 10 km run than I had been after the 8 km one two months earlier. [Here is a
photo that Kirsty snapped of me at about 7
km](http://c4.staticflickr.com/4/3931/15444690895_fa99415c8f_h.jpg). I actually
look like I'm enjoying myself!

To keep the motivation going, I signed up for another 10 km run at the Melbourne
Marathon Festival and a 14 km run at The City to Sea. More on those later...

## August

My running calendar for August, much like June, looks pretty empty. We had a few
things going on in our lives outside of running. Not least the arrival of
Eamonn's little brother Dara.

I kept up with the parkruns, though and managed to do all five in August. Two of
them were interesting.

### [Westerfolds parkrun # 45 - 23/08/2014](https://www.strava.com/activities/184015136)

It was a cold morning. Eamonn and his Granny (who'd just arrived from England)
came along with me. I brought gloves as my hands had been freezing the previous
week. Eamonn decided that he wanted to run with me, so he joined me at the start
and ran alongside me until we got back to where Granny was waiting for him,
where he went off to play with her. I was still carrying my earphones and
couldn't get them untangled with my gloves on. I decided, despite [my earlier
vow](#vow) that I would carry on with them in my hands and not my ears. To my
surprise, I wasn't as wheezy as I had been last time I ran without music. And I
didn't have a cable bobbing around to annoy me. Perhaps this wouldn't be so bad.

### [Westerfolds parkrun # 46 - 30/08/2014](https://www.strava.com/activities/187153863)

I left the earphones at home for this one. Eamonn stayed home, too (the lure of
a new baby brother)! Much to my surprise I beat my personal best around
Westerfolds Park. Perhaps my music had been holding me back all this time? I've
not run with music since (and the next parkrun I knocked nearly two minutes
off this week's time).

## September

With 10 weeks to go to the [City2Sea](http://www.thecity2sea.com.au/), the
organisers announced a new course... a new fifteen kilometre course. [I had
signed up for a 14 km
event](https://twitter.com/johnsyweb/status/508483062452068353). I'd not run
more than 11 km before (and hadn't run more than 5 km for over a month), it was
time to start to think seriously about how I was going to get up to that kind of
distance. I was still on paternity leave so managed to squeeze in a couple of
runs in the week (with much gratitude to my mother-in-law who was staying to
help with Kirsty and the boys) and broke through the 11 km barrier.

On the morning I was to return to work, I was awake really, really early. I
decided this would be a good opportunity to go for a run and bring myself closer
to running 15 km. I had about an hour and a half before I had to get ready for
work and decided to use all of it and that's what I did. That morning I ran 16.5
km, 5 km more than I'd ever run before. I felt pretty good after that, I can
tell you!

Since I'd stopped using Endomondo, I'd missed the frequent feedback on my pace,
distance and time, so I decided to buy [a running
watch](https://buy.garmin.com/en-AU/AU/wearabletech/watches-wearable-technology/forerunner-620/prod122785.html).
I took it for its first run at the end of September and it made a huge
difference over carrying a phone with me. On my first run with the watch, [I ran
18 km](https://www.strava.com/activities/195952077/overview). It was a
game-changer. I would normally advocate against reading the comments on the
Internet, but if you can read the comments on that last run on Strava, do! My
friends Gary, Barney, and Cecilia convinced me that I should be upgrading my
Melbourne Marathon 10 km entry to a Half Marathon entry based on that run. I
really didn't think I'd be ready for it.

That weekend we were in Adelaide for a wedding. It was a good opportunity to do
[my first tourist parkrun](https://www.strava.com/activities/196770700), which
was a lot of fun. One of the many things I enjoy about parkrun is the way that
you can find one near you almost anywhere in the world. I've done four tourist
parkruns now and they've all been enjoyable experiences.

When I got back to Melbourne, it was time for another long run. I decided to see
if my friends were right and set off at 06:00 on a Monday morning to see what
distance I could cover in two hours. [22.6
km](https://www.strava.com/activities/198156931) was the answer... I could do a
half-marathon... I just did one! I kept a pretty consistent pace too (thanks to
the watch). Okay, I would see if I could change my entry.

That week I started what was to become a regular arrangement with some of the
folks from work who were also in training for the 10 km event, we started to run
from the office down to The Tan, around The Tan Track and back again. We still
run [that course](https://www.strava.com/activities/199429574) most Wednesdays
before work (back then it was Fridays, but we switched). That was the first time
that I'd ever run with anybody and it's made me a better runner for sure.

## October

On Sunday, 12 October 2014, having upgraded my entry on the Thursday, I ran the
[2014 Melbourne Marathon - Half
Marathon](https://www.strava.com/activities/206174373/overview) in 01:56:31.
From a guy who'd not run 100m at the beginning of the year, to run over 21 km at
all was pretty surprising. To do it in under two hours was, I think,
incredible. The exhaustion from such a long run was certainly surpassed by the
sense of achievement of completing a half marathon. The cycle home afterwards
was hard work, though!

Two weeks later came an even prouder moment... Eamonn took part in his [first
fun run](https://www.strava.com/activities/211642978): 1 km at a much faster
pace than I could have managed back in February. He also [raised
AU$160](https://www.mycause.com.au/page/83145/eamonnruns) for charity. Not bad
for a four-year old. I'm not sure that [running makes me a better
parent](http://amessagewithabottle.com/2014/07/21/how-running-makes-me-a-better-parent/),
but I hope I've set a good example for my boys that exercise is "normal".

## November

I made another weekly running commitment. Commitments to friends are good
motivators to get out there, whatever the weather, and run. Fridays are to be
"run to work days". At the beginning of November, as Melbourne was warming up
for Summer, I ran into work with another Coburger. It has become a fairly
regular thing since then. Unfortunately towards the end of this first run I
started to get some pain in my left shin. The next day I ran at Westerfolds
parkrun and the pain came back quickly and just didn't go away. I read up about
"RICE", Rest, Ice, Compression & Elevation. The City2Sea was only 8 days away
and I really wanted to get that medal so I did everything in my power to get my
leg ready to run the following Sunday. Compression socks are ace (once you get
the things on). Kirsty spent most of the following week trying to talk me out of
running but I wanted to get that medal!

I'd been pain-free for a couple of days when the City2Sea came around, so
figured it would be fine to run. It was raining very heavily on the morning of
the race, so I drove into the city rather than cycle and start the run wet. I
had been worried about how hot it would be in Melbourne in November I shouldn't
have been. I lined up alongside my friends from work and set off at a reasonable
pace. I bumped into Gary who asked how my leg was: it was fine and my
compression socks seemed to be keeping everything in line. About 4 km in,
though, I started to feel it again, a niggling sensation in my left shin. By 9 km
as I headed up through Albert Park I was in a World of pain. I wondered about
stopping but figured I was closer to the end than the start, so I should get to
the end _and then_ stop. I finished in a great time: 01:16:30, which I'm not
sure I would have done had it not been for the pain!

Unfortunately, the next day I was barely able to walk! I went to a physio and
was ordered not to run until the _Anterior Tibial Tendinopathy_ had been
treated. And I wanted to do one more run this year!

## December

The physio allowed me to ease back into running gently at the beginning of
December. I went for a 1 km run with Eamonn to celebrate and was completely
pain-free. That Saturday I did a slow return to my home parkrun. Again,
pain-free. I'd wanted to run the 10 km Christmas Run at Albert Park, but the
physio advised me to stick to 5 km as a limit for now and so I ran [my best-ever
5 km](https://www.strava.com/activities/228015874/overview) at Emma and Tom's
[Christmas Run](Emma and Tom's Christmas Run 2014): 0:24:10.3. I did a couple
more runs in Australia before heading to the UK for Christmas.

On Christmas Eve I did [my first ever run on British
soil](https://www.strava.com/activities/232346878). It was really hard work
running in such cold, damp conditions with heavy traffic travelling quickly next
to a narrow footpath. I returned to our holiday home feeling that I probably
would never have taken up running had I stayed living in the UK. It's hard to
tell, of course. I run in cold, damp conditions in Melbourne!

[![](https://igcdn-photos-a-a.akamaihd.net/hphotos-ak-xaf1/t51.2885-15/10832190_404710713019296_1470863339_n.jpg)](https://instagram.com/p/wtDIidCgkW/)

## 2015

This year I'm running regularly again and building up distances back up
gradually to avoid a repeat of last year's injury. I occasionally get niggles
from my left knee but they go away with rest, so I'll continue to keep them in
check.

The goal for this year? I have bib number 800 for the Melbourne Marathon! My
friend Adrian has helped me form a training plan and now I just have to work
through it. Well... a half was a great achievement, but when have I _ever_ done
anything by halves?
