---
layout: post
category: cycling
title: How do we stop this happening?
date: 2016-03-03 11:47:58
---

Since I started cycling to work a couple of years ago, I have come to love and
fear cycling in Melbourne in almost equal measure.

I love the feeling of freedom, flexibility, agility and reliability I get from
my bicycles. I can get from point A to point B in a reasonably predictable time,
take in the sights of our trails when time permits and get some exercise and
fresh air while I commute. It beats waiting for an overcrowded train on the
Upfield line every day of the week.

Cycling in Melbourne is dangerous, though. At almost every intersection, I am
aware of motorists distracted by their smartphones. Bike lanes on our highways,
where they exist, are too narrow, have uneven surfaces and usually contain a
stationary vehicle or two.
[Car doors](https://www.vicroads.vic.gov.au/safety-and-road-rules/cyclist-safety/car-doors-and-bike-riders) present a threat on every stretch. Since
[Alberto Paulon was killed while cycling on Sydney Road](https://www.theage.com.au/victoria/italian-cyclist-alberto-paulon-killed-on-sydney-road-brunswick-remembered-by-work-colleagues-and-memorial-ride-20150302-13skbz.html)
last year, VicRoads has painted new markings along the stretch warning cyclists
and motorists about the risk of car doorings but segregated lanes that were
talked about have not materialised. I don't really see what good these signs do:
cyclists are _acutely_ aware of the danger and if car users can't see cyclists
at eye level, they're not going to pay attention to markings on the ground next
to their cars! I have avoided cycling along there since, favouring quieter roads
through Brunswick.

Avoiding that stretch didn't prevent me from being struck by a car [on my ride
home from work](https://www.strava.com/activities/435334502) one evening in
November, alas.

And yet, when my elder child started school in January, I encouraged him to
cycle to school. I want him to share my love of cycling and enjoy the benefits
of an active lifestyle as well as taking an environmentally friendly mode of
transport to school. He does love it and cycles almost every morning with his
Mum (the other days he has taken his scooter).

This morning, I rode with him. It was great to be able to share this ride with
him. He parked his bike at school, ran off to the yard excited and I pedalled
off to work, joining the shared path from Pentridge Boulvard along O'Hea St. A
cyclist passed me as I crossed Sydney Road and I followed behind them at about
the same safe distance I would normally follow my son along the green bike path.
The other cyclist wasn't travelling particularly quickly but he maintained a
constant velocity as he approached intersections.

As he crossed the fourth intersection, I saw a white car turning right from
O'Hea St into Gilmour St as he was crossing. The car didn't slow as it cut the
corner and I think I shouted something like "BRAKEJESUS CHRISTNO!" as a saw the
car hit him, scoop him up, in to the windscreen and, a short time later, come to
a stop and throw him onto the road, mangled with his bike.

I felt sick. I thought I'd just watched a person take their last breath.

To my utter relief, the cyclist was conscious and moving as I ditched my
mountain bike and ran to his aid. He sat up and was visibly shaken, bruised and
grazed. There was some light bleeding but he was in remarkably good condition.
He was wearing a helmet (one of the first questions the ambulance crew would
later ask) and this probably saved his head from a traumatic injury.

The resident of a nearby house came running out to see why a shoe (his, that had
left his body in the collision) had hit her window.

The driver of the little white car uttered the words that no cyclist ever wants
to hear, "I'm sorry, I didn't see you!". Just like the evening when I was hit,
visibility was not an issue, the sun was high in the sky. I was livid. I
couldn't look the driver in the face or say anything.

<a data-flickr-embed="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/johnsyweb/25467827175/" title="Cyclist surprisingly well after a motorist &quot;didn&#x27;t see him&quot;"><img src="https://farm2.staticflickr.com/1641/25467827175_d467f254fa_z.jpg" width="640" height="480" alt="Cyclist surprisingly well after a motorist &quot;didn&#x27;t see him&quot;"></a><script async src="https://embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<a data-flickr-embed="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/johnsyweb/24841098583/" title="That&#x27;s how far the cyclist landed from the cycle path!"><img src="https://farm2.staticflickr.com/1507/24841098583_1629132654_z.jpg" width="640" height="480" alt="That&#x27;s how far the cyclist landed from the cycle path!"></a><script async src="https://embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I called an ambulance (the second time I have called an ambulance on my way to
work after a car has hit a cyclist within 2km of my home since I've lived in
Coburg) and the motorist called the police.

I stopped traffic coming into the road while the victim lay there and even
received some abuse for doing so from a motorist. I'm sorry for the
inconvenience I must have caused.

After the ambulance crew had cleared the cyclist to carry on with his day and
the police had taken the driver's and my details, I headed off to work, very
cautiously. I counted four motorists with smartphones in their hands at
junctions and two blocking crossings during my ~10km ride. This is fairly
typical.

For the rest of today I have thought of little else (I guess hence this blog
post). I can't help but think how easily that could have been me, _K_, or,
worse, one of our kids. I don't want that ever to happen and I feel absolutely
powerless to prevent it.

So... how do *we* stop this happening?
