---
layout: post
category: running
title: Dingo Dash
date: 2018-08-17  6:53:10
---

Over the last few years I've come to really enjoy running. I typically run three
or four times per week with one of these runs being a long run, at least 21.1km.
After [my first marathon]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2015-11-01-my-first-marathon %}) I agreed with
my family that I'd not spend such of my weekend doing long runs and formed a
habit of getting up very early on a Friday morning for these runs, usually with
a couple of my [Merri Creek Running Club](http://merricreekrunning.club/)
friends.

This week, we've driven from Melbourne to
[Yulara](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yulara,_Northern_Territory) in the red
heart of Australia. I got out for my habitual runs on Monday (in Adelaide) and
Wednesday (in Coober Pedy) and have been looking forward to my Friday Long Run
from the tourist resort to watch the sunrise over the majestic monolith that is
[Uluru](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uluru), enjoying twenty-odd kilometres of
[serenity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Castle_(1997_Australian_film))
along the way.

The run started off well, a little earlier than planned, at about 5:15am and I
saw a warming campfire at the edge of the resort. It was about 8&deg;C, still
and dry: perfect running conditions! As I hit the [Lasseter
Highway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lasseter_Highway), the soft street
lighting of Yulara faded into darkness and a spectacular starscape opened up in
front of me.

Running alone in the dark was a strange experience. My head torch illuminated
enough of the road ahead of me to pick out any unevenness in the road and my
[Million Mile Lights](https://www.batteryfree.co.uk/) ensured I was visible to
the couple of passing vehicles along the way but I had no peripheral vision.

Approximately 2.5km into my run I thought I heard a tapping sound ahead of me. I
turned around and the light from my head torch bounced off the eyes of a small
animal on the other side of the road. I quickened my pace and heard the animal
do the same, so I stopped. And it stopped. I turned and was faced with a [black
and tan dingo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dingo). Aware that most wild
animals are as afraid of humans as we are of them, but equally aware that I
could be on the menu, I motioned to the animal that I intended to carry on in
the direction of Uluru and that I would leave them in peace. The canine didn't
take the hint and continued to pursue me from the other side of the road. The
beam from the head torch seemed to act as a nonphysical barrier beyond which the
creature wouldn't step, but I didn't get the feeling that it offered any real
protection. I continued to trot along the highway with the torch now in my hand
to keep the dingo at bay. It followed along on the other side of the road
keeping parallel with me for about a kilometre but I become increasingly aware
that my long run was not going to go anything like I had planned, I couldn't
take my eyes off my new companion for long enough to look at my running watch,
but I knew my heart-rate was elevated and my pace was erratic, there was little
chance I was going to make it to meet my brother-in-law at the Sunrise Viewing
Area at the time we'd agreed last night.

And then, after about a kilometre, the dog moved in front of me on the same side
of the road, facing me. I stopped and slowly crossed the road. It crossed the
road too, still facing me. I said, "this is clearly your territory, I'm going to
go back to my home now and you can go back to yours!" and I turned slowly and
began to walk back to the resort, keeping the torch beam on the dog.

It followed me.

I part walked -- part jogged back along the Lasseter Highway, using the beam to
keep a distance between us. A vehicle approached, heading for [Uluru-Kata Tjuta
National Park](https://parksaustralia.gov.au/uluru/) and I warned the dog to get
out of the way. Despite being scared of this animal, I wanted no harm for it.
After the vehicle passed the dog sat facing me and growled a deep, menacing
growl. I became increasingly concerned for my safety and tried hard not to show
any signs of fear. I again told the dog that I was going back and it should go
on its own way but it remained unconvinced and continued in pursuit.

It wasn't long before the street lights of the resort at Yulara welcomed me back
into civilisation but the mutt was undeterred by these and followed me
regardless, getting closer and closer. A delivery vehicle went past and the
driver must have seen me shining the torch on the dingo. I'm not sure what they
were thinking but they tooted their horn. After the van had gone, I was left
face to face with the seated dingo. I backed away slowly.

A tour bus approached and the driver saw a similar sight to the delivery driver
but slowed down. In a moment, I flagged the coach down and walked slowly over to
the passenger door, torch beam on the animal at all times. The driver kindly
opened the door and invited me aboard. He said he'd seen that dingo a few times
over the past few weeks but never on the resort ground, when he'd seen me there
he knew I was in trouble! The driver was picking folks up from the first hotel
on the resort for a sunrise tour of the national park and advised me to tell the
hotel receptionist that there was a dingo on the resort so that they could "deal
with it". I couldn't find any staff members at the reception area and after the
coach load of tourists were on their way for a fun morning, I sent my
brother-in-law a message to say not to expect me at Uluru and headed off back to
our hotel. As I left the first hotel's car park and started to cross the road, I
heard familiar paw-steps across the road. I shined my torch and the eyes of the
hound reflected the light back at me. I headed straight back through the
brightly-lit car park into the reception area. This time there were a few people
in reception and two behind the counter. I made my report to one of these who
said they'd inform maintenance and I had a drink of water before setting off in
the other direction to make my long, illuminated way back to bed.

I was utterly, utterly unprepared for what I might meet in Outback Australia and
will certainly not be making the mistake of attempting to run alone in the
outback again, I can tell you! Still, I'm unharmed and have what I think is a
great holiday tale. I'm looking forward to being back running with my mates back
in Melbourne in a few days and continuing my training towards my fourth
Melbourne Marathon on 14 October.
