---
layout: post
category: lexicography
title: Words
date: 2019-06-23  6:28:49
---

A highlight at work recently wasn't directly work-related at all but a positive
comment from a colleague on my use of the word "outlandish".

"Outlandish" isn't a word I remember using very much until maybe three years ago
and now I use it quite a lot.

In the workplace, and in life in general, I value diversity and inclusion. I
find myself drawn into conversations about inclusion a lot. One day about three
years ago we were discussing the use "guys" when addressing groups of people;
I'd successfully weaned myself off that word and onto "folks" as a more
inclusive address. Moving away from the gendered term "guys" to folks took a
little conscious effort, for a short time, but soon became second-nature. It was
on that day that one of the team shared a link to a presentation entitled
[Sidestepping Ableist
Language](http://www.friendlyediting.com/assets/notsoableist/index.html) by
[Ashley Bischoff](https://twitter.com/FriendlyAshley) and viewing that
presentation was a watershed moment for me. I'd say it was that day that I
started to use the word "outlandish" instead of other ableist words, which were
more prominent in my vocabulary. Again, it didn't take much time or effort for
me to move off one word onto another.

It makes me happy to know that a small change on my part can make a big
difference to how included a member of a group feels.

I still wish I had a broader vocabulary. 

For years now, I've been subscribed to the
[A.Word.A.Day](https://wordsmith.org/awad/) email. I remember the moment I read
the word [petrichor](https://wordsmith.org/words/petrichor1.html) for the first
time and how I nearly leaped out of my chair when I discovered that my favourite
smell had a name! This is a great source of word knowledge.

More recently, I've been enjoying listening to [Something Rhymes with
Purple](https://play.acast.com/s/somethingrhymeswithpurple/), which is hugely
entertaining as well as educational.

What's _your_ favourite source of new words?

