---
layout: post
category: Engineering
title: Keeping in the Development Loop
date: 2022-08-04  1:25:22
---

I was recently asked, "As an engineering manager, how do you keep up-to-date
with what's happening in the development world?", which I thought was a really
interesting topic and one that warranted further exploration.

First, do we accept the premise that managers _need_ to keep up-to-date with
what's happening in the development world? Honestly, I'm not sure we do need to
be across the latest language features, framework versions and cloud provider
offerings; we have engineers whom we trust to do this. That said, I spent most
of my life as a developer and have always kept my hand in to some extent, as far
as I can get from the critical path for the past few years, so I do _want_ to
keep in touch with that side of things. I _like_ to be informed on what's out
there, even if it's not strictly necessary, as I feel it's a good way to prepare
for conversations that may arise in the workplace. There are likely to be other
valid approaches.

Mostly, I keep up-to-date by talking to the engineers on my team and by
reviewing their pull requests but to keep up with what's happening in the
industry more generally, I like to read and to listen.

Here are some of the newsletters and podcasts to which I am subscribe, which
have kept me informed over the past few years. As I'm in the process of changing
employer (and technology stacks), this may change (or even just shrink).

## Newsletters

I find email newsletters to be a pretty efficient way of consuming the headlines
and diving into content of interest. It's also great to be able to go back and
search my mail archive when I know I've seen something relevant to a work
conversation recently. These are the subscriptions that have served me well.

 - [Calibre Performance Newsletter](https://calibreapp.com/newsletter)
 - [Devops Weekly](https://www.devopsweekly.com/)
 - [Last Week in AWS](https://www.lastweekinaws.com/)
 - [Ruby Weekly](https://rubyweekly.com/)
 - [SRE Weekly](https://sreweekly.com/)
 - [Speedshop Ruby Performance Newsletter](https://speedshop.us11.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=1aa0f43522f6d9ef96d1c5d6f&id=840412962b)

 I also miss [cron.weekly](https://ma.ttias.be/cronweekly/).

## Podcasts

Podcasts require more time investment and I go through phases of bingeing
technical podcasts and then eschewing them altogether to focus on other areas of
interest. For what it's worth, "wherever you get your podcasts from" for me is
[Overcast](https://overcast.fm/) as I really like the way I can organise my
subscriptions and how I can control the playback speed.

The only technical podcast I keep coming back to is
[Maintainable](https://maintainable.fm/). Maintainability is possibly the most
critical of all [quality
attributes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_system_quality_attributes) as
it can underpin so many others. I'm a fan of the simple, predictable format of
this podcast and have recommended more episodes of podcast than any other
podcast (technical or otherwise) than any other.

Over the years I have dipped in and out of [The Bike
Shed](https://www.bikeshed.fm/) and have got a whole bunch of great technical
tips from it, so it warrants a mention here, even though I've not listened to it
for a while.
